[MUSIC]
In order to view and or edit a formula,
you can go to the relevant cell and
double click or you can press F2
to open up the formula editing field.
Any referenced cells within a formula
are highlighted using different colors.
These colors are also used to show
the corresponding cell locations in
the sheets.
Sometimes, you may want to gain a better
understanding of how a formula is being
calculated or if a complex formula is
not returning the expected results.
This can be done by clicking on the
"Evaluate Formula" button that is located
on the formula tab.
Clicking this button will open up a prompt
that helps you walk through the formula
step-by-step.
Evaluate formula can be used to analyze
Excel workbooks that are send to
you by someone else or
it can be used well in developing and/or
troubleshooting complex formulas
that have multiple components.
For the second exercise, we are going
to use the "Evaluate Formula" option to
help us evaluate the function
that we just typed.
We start by clicking on
the formula in cell B21, and
then we select the "Evaluate Formula"
option from the Formula ribbon.
As you can see, this opens up a pop-up
window that will let us evaluate
the formula that is in the cell
that we just selected.
We can step through the evaluation of that
formula by clicking the Evaluate
button at the bottom.
If so, we'll underline the part of the
formula that it is currently calculating.
As we keep clicking through,
we will see how it's cell computes
the different values and
end up with the final result of 25.
Once we are done evaluating the formula,
we click on the Close button
to close this pop up Window.
To write a formula, we first need
to select the proper formula for
this situation.
If we do not know the exact
formula that is needed,
we can find a series of
options on the formula bar.
If we open the Lookup and Reference bar,
we get a series of formulas
that help us reference data.
When we hold our mouse over a formula,
Excel will give us a short
description of that formula.
Excel has hundreds of functions that can
be combined to do countless operations.
Even the most advanced Excel user is
constantly learning new formulas and
new tricks.
Excel will assist you in writing formulas,
but providing hints regarding
the structure of the formula that you
selected, such as showing required inputs.
Excel formulas have both mandatory and
optional fields.
The optional fields will be
shown encompassed by brackets.
If you are unsure about
the formula you are using,
or how to construct it, you can use
the fx button which will walk you through
the construction of that specific formula.
Each formula has a unique logic that
has to be followed in order for
the formula to calculate correctly.
Excel will prompt you if all
fields are not provided,
or if fields are provided incorrectly.
For the third exercise, we will be
looking into how Excel can help you
construct a formula,
by providing various prompts.
Let's start by clicking on cell B27 and
pressing the equal sign
to start a formula.
We're going to try out
the average function which is an
Excel formula calculating the average
value of a set of data points.
As you can see,
Excel recognizes the formula and
tells us to enter at least one
value since this is mandatory.
The additional values are optional
since they are encompassed by brackets.
As you work within different sections of
the formula, the active section is bolded,
I used this frequently when
trying to troubleshoot a formula.
If I believe I am working on one
component of the formula but it's not
the bolded section, then I know I'm
missing a comma or parenthesis somewhere.
Here, let's try to calculate
the average of one and three.
As you can see,
Excel tells us that this is equal to 2.
If you want to see where the contents of
a cell are coming from you can navigate to
the formula ribbon and
click on the Trace Precedents button.
This will highlight all of the cells that are
being used in order to calculate the value
in the cell that you are looking at.
The Trace Dependence button, also under the
formula tab, will allow you to show any
cells that are referencing the cell
that is currently selected.
Both the Trace Precedence and
Trace Dependence buttons will show
arrows on the sheets, showing you how
the data flows to one cell to the other.
You can remove these arrows by clicking
on the remove arrows button that is also
located under the formula tab.
These functions become very helpful when
auditing someone else's spreadsheet or
when error checking your own spreadsheet.
For the fourth and final exercise,
we will be looking into
Trace Precedence and Trace Dependence.
Let's start by clicking cell B35.
Now, we go up to the formula ribbon and
we select Trace Dependence.
As you can see, there's now an arrow
pointing from cell B35 to cell
C35 showing us that cell C35 is currently
referencing cells B35 in its calculations.
Excel also allows us to Trace Precedence,
showing us where a cell is
pulling it's value from.
This is done by selecting cell C35 and
then going up to the Formulas ribbon and
selecting Trace Precedents.
As you can see, there are now
two arrows pointing from cell
B35 as well as cell B36 to cell C35,
Showing us that cell C35 is currently
referencing both number two and
the number five and cell C35 and C36.
Note that once you are done
Tracing Precedents and Dependents,
there are arrows across the screen.
You can remove these arrows by
clicking on the remove arrows
button in the formula ribbon.
[SOUND]